content/projects/watchity.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: "Watchity",
  description: "Suite of tools for live video",
  heroImage: "/career/watchity/hero.png",
  featuredImage: "/career/watchity/featured.png",
  headerImage: "/career/watchity/header.jpg",
  website: "<https://www.watchity.com/>",
  skills: [
    "Python",
    "TypeScript",
    "Django",
    "WebRTC",
    "Janus",
    "WebGL",
    "Unity",
    "REST",
    "Swagger",
    "Celery",
    "Kubernetes",
    "Helm",
    "Angular",
    "Redis",
    "RxJS",
    "HLS",
    "RTMP",
    "Socket.IO",
    "PostgreSQL",
    "AWS",
    "Nx",
  ],
};

# SaaS for Video Communication

> With [Watchity](https://www.watchity.com/), you can align your communication
> with the demands of formats, channels, and immediacy in today’s video-driven
> society.

**Watchity** is a cloud-based **SaaS platform** designed to simplify video
communication for companies and brands. As a <Hi>Full Stack Engineer</Hi>, I worked
across various parts of the platform and contributed to architectural decisions
and implementation as well as leading a team of 4 engineers.

- **Studio** app for producing branded video signals.
- Interactive **landing** pages and players for live events.
- Live editing tool for **clipping** and **sharing** video feeds.

![Watchity Parts](/career/watchity/parts.png)

## Event Management

We focused on client customization for landing pages, email reminders, branded
forms, and access restrictions, resulting in **dynamic page generation**
tailored to each event.

## Ingestion & Mixing

We handled `RTMP` streams from professional devices and `WebRTC` inputs from
speakers' webcams and screen shares. I gained extensive experience in
**real-time communications** using `WebRTC` and
[Janus](https://janus.conf.meetecho.com/) as well as **media browser APIs**.

> For the video mixer, we used _Unity_. That gaves so much power to enrich the
> user's content. I was responsible for bootstrapping _Janus WebRTC_ in _C#_
> within _Unity_.

## Consumption & Distribution

**Distribution** and how to deliver the video was a key challenge—some events
had hundreds of thousands of viewers, requiring a scalable video player and
efficient **live interaction** features (chat, calls to action, etc.). I learned
how to strategically cache and memoize to ensure performance.

We supported both live and recorded video **sharing to social networks** like
_YouTube_, _LinkedIn_, _X_ (_Twitter_), and others. I led the authentication and
API integrations for those.

The player included an **interactive engagement layer** to engage the audience
with chat, reactions, quizzes, questions and answers, and calls to action. I led
a team of three for this area and improved my _DevOps_ skills by setting up
development environments and CI/CD pipelines.Janus

The engagement required real time communication that involved me into using
WebRTC and Socket.IO to ensure their stable interactions.

<MacBookShowcase
  className="max-sm:mt-4"
  images={[
    "/career/watchity/studio.png",
    "/career/watchity/branding.png",
    "/career/watchity/clipper.png",
    "/career/watchity/engagement.png",
  ]}
/>

<Gallery
  className="mb-4 min-h-[100px] max-sm:mt-4"
  gridClassName="grid-cols-4"
  images={[
    "/career/watchity/studio.png",
    "/career/watchity/branding.png",
    "/career/watchity/clipper.png",
    "/career/watchity/engagement.png",
  ]}
/>

---

# Cloud-Based Solution

Our stack ran entirely on _AWS_, exposing me to infrastructure tools like
_CloudFormation_. I worked with on-demand deployments and resource optimization.

One of my proudest contributions was designing an **observability system** for
an _EC2 Auto Scaling Group_ that scaled down to zero when the job queue was
empty and scaled up when jobs were pending. This **optimization** had a tangible
impact on the company’s _AWS_ costs.

# Consultancy & Tailor-Made Solutions

Some clients required custom workflows or _APIs_. I handled both the
implementation and the creation of clear, elegant _Postman_ documentation to
reduce back-and-forth emails.

Commit message:

chore: add key contributions at Watchity

content/projects/watchity.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: "Watchity",
  description: "Suite of tools for live video",
  heroImage: "/career/watchity/hero.png",
  featuredImage: "/career/watchity/featured.png",
  headerImage: "/career/watchity/header.jpg",
  website: "<https://www.watchity.com/>",
  skills: [
    "Python",
    "TypeScript",
    "Django",
    "WebRTC",
    "Janus",
    "WebGL",
    "Unity",
    "REST",
    "Swagger",
    "Celery",
    "Kubernetes",
    "Helm",
    "Angular",
    "Redis",
    "RxJS",
    "HLS",
    "RTMP",
    "Socket.IO",
    "PostgreSQL",
    "AWS",
    "Nx",
  ],
};

# Key Contributions

A summary of my core responsibilities and accomplishments during my time at
**Watchity**:

- Delivered features for **governments, banks and brands** such as Volkswagen,
  Generali, MediaMarkt, L’Oréal, BBVA, Banc Sabadell and more.
- **Lead an external team** and provided them **code analysis** and **CI/CD pipelines** to
  deliver work without compromising permission overgranting keeping code base
  cohesion and style.
- Designed and implemented (delivering **DX**-friendly **Postman** and
  **Swagger** documentation) **REST API** endpoints demanded by technical clients
  using Django.
- **Rearchitectured** the frontend stack to a monorepo and created reusable
  structures accross apps (**NgRx** store) that reduced verbosity and similar code
  to prevent confusion and bugs.
- Developed a queue observation solution that **cut down AWS costs by 30%**.
- **Bootstrapped** a Janus **WebRTC client** for Unity in C#.
- Created stable **mass-scale real time interaction** with Socket.IO and WebRTC.
- **Containerized apps** so new colleagues have an environment ready to work.
- Proactively wrote **Helm Charts** for our apps with secrets management.
- Designed the **SAML workflow** for our clients' Single Sign On (SSO).
- Integrated Twitter, Facebook, YouTube & LinkedIn's live streaming APIs.

# SaaS for Video Communication

> With [Watchity](https://www.watchity.com/), you can align your communication
> with the demands of formats, channels, and immediacy in today’s video-driven
> society.

**Watchity** is a cloud-based **SaaS platform** designed to simplify video
communication for companies and brands. As a <Hi>Full Stack Engineer</Hi>, I worked
across various parts of the platform and contributed to architectural decisions
and implementation as well as leading a team of 4 engineers.

- **Studio** app for producing branded video signals.
- Interactive **landing** pages and players for live events.
- Live editing tool for **clipping** and **sharing** video feeds.

![Watchity Parts](/career/watchity/parts.png)

## Event Management

We focused on client customization for landing pages, email reminders, branded
forms, and access restrictions, resulting in **dynamic page generation**
tailored to each event.

## Ingestion & Mixing

We handled `RTMP` streams from professional devices and `WebRTC` inputs from
speakers' webcams and screen shares. I gained extensive experience in
**real-time communications** using `WebRTC` and
[Janus](https://janus.conf.meetecho.com/) as well as **media browser APIs**.

> For the video mixer, we used _Unity_. That gaves so much power to enrich the
> user's content. I was responsible for bootstrapping _Janus WebRTC_ in _C#_
> within _Unity_.

## Consumption & Distribution

**Distribution** and how to deliver the video was a key challenge—some events
had hundreds of thousands of viewers, requiring a scalable video player and
efficient **live interaction** features (chat, calls to action, etc.). I learned
how to strategically cache and memoize to ensure performance.

We supported both live and recorded video **sharing to social networks** like
_YouTube_, _LinkedIn_, _X_ (_Twitter_), and others. I led the authentication and
API integrations for those.

The player included an **interactive engagement layer** to engage the audience
with chat, reactions, quizzes, questions and answers, and calls to action. I led
a team of three for this area and improved my _DevOps_ skills by setting up
development environments and CI/CD pipelines.Janus

The engagement required real time communication that involved me into using
WebRTC and Socket.IO to ensure their stable interactions.

<MacBookShowcase
  className="max-sm:mt-4"
  images={[
    "/career/watchity/studio.png",
    "/career/watchity/branding.png",
    "/career/watchity/clipper.png",
    "/career/watchity/engagement.png",
  ]}
/>

<Gallery
  className="mb-4 min-h-[100px] max-sm:mt-4"
  gridClassName="grid-cols-4"
  images={[
    "/career/watchity/studio.png",
    "/career/watchity/branding.png",
    "/career/watchity/clipper.png",
    "/career/watchity/engagement.png",
  ]}
/>

---

# Cloud-Based Solution

Our stack ran entirely on _AWS_, exposing me to infrastructure tools like
_CloudFormation_. I worked with on-demand deployments and resource optimization.

One of my proudest contributions was designing an **observability system** for
an _EC2 Auto Scaling Group_ that scaled down to zero when the job queue was
empty and scaled up when jobs were pending. This **optimization** had a tangible
impact on the company’s _AWS_ costs.

# Consultancy & Tailor-Made Solutions

Some clients required custom workflows or _APIs_. I handled both the
implementation and the creation of clear, elegant _Postman_ documentation to
reduce back-and-forth emails.
